docs(crypto): add cryptographic document (#68)
userstyles-world/userstyles.world: docs/crypto.MD

# Cryptographic

In this document, the usage of cryptographic functions is being explained.

> Hereby we try to explain it in plain english text and try to avoid complicated words.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hereby we try to explain it in plain English while avoiding the use of too many technical terms.
```

> We first explain which functions use, after that we will describe our exact use-case for them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We first explain which functions are used, and after that we will describe our exact use-case for them.
```

> Please read the Cryptographic terms to clear up what certain common terms means

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please refer to the Cryptographic terms below to understand what they mean.
```

## Cryptographic terms

### Hashing/Hash

> Hashing is the process of an (cryptographic) hashing function that takes an input,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hashing is the process of a (cryptographic) hashing function that takes an input,
```

> and returns an long string which cannot be reversed or linked back to the original input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and returns a long stream of text (string) which cannot be reversed or linked back to the original input.
```

> This output is called "hash".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This output is called a "hash".
```

### Encryption

> Encryption is a term used to describe process. Whereby an given input and given key,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Encryption is a term used to describe a process whereby a given input and a given key,
```

> is turned into an unique string. However unlike the hashing process, this unique string can be linked/reversed back

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is turned into a unique string. However, unlike the hashing process, this unique string can be linked/reversed back
```

to the original input if you have the given key whereby this input was encrypted. 

## Cryptographic functions

### JWT

> JSON Web Token("JWT") is our primary way to authenticate a user with the server and have confident it isn't an malicious attack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JSON Web Token("JWT") is our primary way to authenticate a user with the server and have confidence that it isn't a malicious attack.
```

> The confident is guarenteed by the built-in [HMAC](#HMAC) signature which is mandatory. The HMAC is made out of: a secret key which only the server operators know, the payload which has information regarding the user like the UserID and the header which contains information about the payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The confidence is guaranteed by the built-in [HMAC](#HMAC) signature which is mandatory. The HMAC is made out of a secret key (which only the server operators know), the payload (which has information regarding the user like the UserID), and the header (which contains information about the payload).
```

> The header + Payload is base64'ed (seperated from each other). And with the Secret Key thrown into the HMAC function, which after that is being hashed by [SHA- 512](#SHA-512):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The header + Payload is base64'ed (separated from each other). And with the Secret Key thrown into the HMAC function, which after that is being hashed by [SHA- 512](#SHA-512) function:
```

```dart
HMAC_SHA512(
  secret,
  base64urlEncoding(header) + '.' +
  base64urlEncoding(payload)
)
```

### HMAC

> Hash-based message authentication code("HMAC") is a type of message authentication code("MAC"), which involves an cryptographic hash function and a secret cryptographic key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hash-based message authentication code("HMAC") is a type of message authentication code("MAC"), which involves a cryptographic hash function and a secret cryptographic key.
```

> Hereby the server can create HMAC with the specifc secret and later-on verify with the same secret that the message is authentic. Due to this we have an guarentee it is authentic and can safely be assume it's safe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hereby the server can create HMAC with the specific secret and later-on verify with the same secret that the message is authentic. Thanks to this, we have the guarantee it's authentic and can safely be assumed it's safe.
```

We currently only use the cryptographic hash function [SHA-512](#SHA-512) as hash function for the HMAC generation.

### SHA-512

> Secure Hash Algorithm("SHA") is an family of secure hash functions made by National Security Agency("NSA"). In partiuclar SHA-512 is a member of the SHA-2 series.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Secure Hash Algorithm("SHA") is a family of secure hash functions made by National Security Agency("NSA"). In particular, SHA-512 is a member of the SHA-2 series.
```

The SHA-2 series is a well known standard and seen in real-life application for hashing.

### Chacha20poly1305

> Chacha20poly1305 is a authenticated encryption based of the cryptographic encryption function [chacha20](#chacha20) and the message authentication code [poly1305](#poly1305).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chacha20poly1305 is an authenticated encryption based of the cryptographic encryption function [chacha20](#chacha20) and the message authentication code [poly1305](#poly1305).
```

> We use a slightly deriavtion of Chacha20poly1305, the Chacha20poly1305x function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use a slight derivation of Chacha20poly1305, the Chacha20poly1305x function.
```

It allows us to add more "nonce" into the string. The nonce is forged with the output.

> Due to this you can still have the same input, but with a different nonce it will completly be a different string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to this you can still have the same input, but with a different nonce it will be a completely different string.
```

It will make it harder to brute-force the end result.

### Chacha20

ChaCha is a family of stream ciphers. Whereby ChaCha20 the secured member is.

> Chacha20 is faster than the well-know AES standard, which is one of the reason is was chosen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chacha20 is faster than the well-know AES standard, which is one of the reasons is was chosen.
```

Hereby it also comes in the [Chacha20poly1305](#chacha20poly1305) form, which has built-in message authentication code to authenticate the data.

> It takes 20-rounds of encrypting the data, unlike the 2 other members which does it in less rounds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It takes 20-rounds of encrypting the data, unlike the 2 other members which do it in less rounds.
```

### Poly1305

Poly1305 is a message authentication code("MAC").

> The function takes in a one-time key and a message to produce a 16-characters long tag. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The function takes an one-time key and a message as its input to produce a 16-characters long tag. 
```

The tag is then used to authenticate the given message.

## Cryptographic usage

### User authentication

A "cookie" is stored on the user's device which contains a [JWT](#JWT).
This is used on the server to know if this device is authenticated with a specific user account.

### Register

> When someone want's to register a new account(not via OAuth).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When someone wants to register a new account (not via OAuth).
```

An email is send to the user, it contains a [Chacha20poly1305](#chacha20poly1305) encrypted [JWT](#JWT).
The JWT contains simple information:
- username.
- password.
- email.

The JWT is signed by an unique key which is only used for this action and the reset password action.
Thereby the Chacha20poly1305 is given 24 length nonce, 

> and that nonce is after the encryption scrambled into the output. Hereby it's add another security layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and that nonce is after the encryption scrambled into the output. That provides another layer of security.
```

### Password reset

> It's somewhat similair to the [register](#register) process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's somewhat similar to the [register](#register) process.
```

An email is send to the user, it contains a [Chacha20poly1305](#chacha20poly1305) encrypted [JWT](#JWT).
The JWT contains simple information:
- email.

The JWT is signed by an unique key which is only used for this action and the register action.
Thereby the Chacha20poly1305 is given 24 length nonce, 

> and that nonce is after the encryption scrambled into the output. Hereby it's add another security layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and that nonce is after the encryption scrambled into the output. That provides another layer of security..
```

### Stats collection

> We collect minimal stats on style's {installs, views}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We collect minimal stats for userstyle installs and views.
```

> To ensure this privacy-senstive data isn't stored in plain text and still use-able.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure this privacy-sensitive data isn't stored in plain text and still usable,
```

> We uses the [HMAC](#HMAC) function to get an hash which is stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we use the [HMAC](#HMAC) function to get a hash that is then stored in the database.
```

> The process along the lines:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The process is along the lines:
```

> Get an combined output of the User's IP and the given Style's ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get a combined output of the User's IP and the given Style's ID
```

```dart
record = "IP of the user" + " " + "ID of the style"
HMAC_SHA512(
    secret,
    record
)
```

The secret used for this is only used for this action, and is a long pseudo-random string.

### OAuth

We allow third-party's to register OAuth's so they can do certain actions based on the user's behalf.

> The third-party's receive an [JWT](#JWT) token with minimal information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The third-party's receive a [JWT](#JWT) token with minimal information.
```

> Information whereby it's linked to specific style:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Information whereby it's linked to a specific style:
```

- specific style's ID.
- user's ID.

> Information whereby it's linked to an user:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Information whereby it's linked to a user:
```

- scopes.
- user's ID.

> The JWT is signed by an long pseudo-random string which is only used for this action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JWT is signed by a long pseudo-random string which is only used for this action.
```
